June newsletter (#220)
ropensci/roweb3: content/blog/2021-06-22-ropensci-news-digest-june-2021/index.Rmd

useR! 2021 will take place online.

Important note, you can view the [conference schedule](https://user2021.r-project.org/program/overview/) in the timezone of your choice.

Get excited for four contributions by rOpenSci staff members:

* **Jeroen Ooms**, rOpenSci Lead Infrastructure Engineer, will give a [**keynote talk**](https://www.conftool.org/user2021/index.php?page=browseSessions&form_session=34#paperID355) about **the R-universe project** on Friday, July the 9th at 12:30PM - 1:30PM UTC.

* **Stefanie Butland**, rOpenSci community manager, will present on [**rOpenSci's Model for Managing a Federated Open Source Software Community**](https://www.conftool.org/user2021/index.php?page=browseSessions&form_session=8&presentations=hide) on Monday, July the 5th at 5:05PM UTC in a session starting at 4:45PM UTC.

* **Mark Padgham**, rOpenSci Software Research Scientist, will also give a [regular talk about his original **autotest**](https://www.conftool.org/user2021/index.php?page=browseSessions&form_session=14#paperID169) package for automatic testing of packages, on Tuesday, July the 6th at 8:45AM UTC (right at the beginning of the session).

> * **Maëlle Salmon**, Research Software Engineer with rOpenSci, will give a [tutorial](https://user2021.r-project.org/program/tutorials/), _**GET better at testing your R package!**_ on Wednesday, July the 7th at 7-10AM UTC. This tutorial is about advanced testing of R packages, with HTTP testing as a case study. The tutorial has no spot left, but it will be recorded and [materials available online](https://http-testing-r.netlify.app/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Maëlle Salmon**, Research Software Engineer with rOpenSci, will give a [tutorial](https://user2021.r-project.org/program/tutorials/), _**GET better at testing your R package!**_ on Wednesday, July the 7th at 7-10AM UTC. This tutorial is about advanced testing of R packages, with HTTP testing as a case study. The tutorial has no spots left, but it will be recorded and [materials are available online](https://http-testing-r.netlify.app/).
```

Author: Thanks @stefaniebutland!

## Package development corner

Some useful tips for R package developers. :eyes:

### Dependency analysis

Have you ever wondered why package Y needed package X, i.e. what the dependency relation between them is?
Whilst there are base R tools for finding this out, the pak package by Gábor Csárdi provides a [nice function for doing just that](https://www.mail-archive.com/r-package-devel@r-project.org/msg06956.html), [pkg_deps_explain()](https://pak.r-lib.org/dev/reference/pkg_deps_explain.html).
E.g.

- if you wonder, why is curl needed to use pkgdown?

- you type `pak::pkg_deps_explain("pkgdown", "curl")`

- you get: `pkgdown -> httr -> curl`

You can even use the local package or a GitHub package as [first argument](https://twitter.com/GaborCsardi/status/1401817431950168064).
Also worth mentioning is [`pkg_deps_tree()`](https://pak.r-lib.org/dev/reference/pkg_deps_tree.html) for drawing the dependency tree of a package.
Note that this is all in [pak development version](https://pak.r-lib.org/dev/index.html#installation).

### Reducing the complexity of code

> When trying to reduce the complexity of your code (for making it easier to maintain and review), check out the [cyclocomp](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/cyclocomp/index.html) package, also by Gábor Csárdi, as reminded by [Lluís Revilla Sancho](https://llrs.dev/) in [rOpenSci semi-open slack](https://contributing.ropensci.org/resources.html#channels): it will help you find too complex functions.

Reviewer 2: "too complex functions" -> "functions that are too complex"
